I was born in the city of Gorlovka,
in the east of Ukraine.
Thinking about the day I was arrested,
I did not think anything like that
could happen to me.
I was going to a field service meeting.
But as I was passing a train station,
I was asked by a military officer
to show my documents.
I showed my passport.
Then suddenly, he said, “Open your bag!”
In the bag I had my Bible
and The Watchtower magazines.
They arrested me but not because
my documents were missing.
They simply said:
“Believer, you are our prisoner.
Go to the basement.”
When I got there, the first thing I did
was silently pray to Jehovah.
This strengthened me a lot.
The smell was terrible—dirty, smoky.
It stunk!
There was no space,
not even if everybody lay on their side.
Each day we were given
only a few pieces of bread and water.
One of the detainees
started to incite everyone to escape.
They took him out,
and from behind the door
we could only hear the sound
of the beating and his cries of pain.
When he was led back,
he was severely beaten.
Of course, all became silent,
and nobody complained anymore.
You could say that they kept us in a state of fear.
One detainee said,
“I would like to address God,
but I don’t know how to pray.”
I volunteered and said, “I can pray.”
Then I sang song 134.
I preached a little
to the detainees and to the guards.
Ten days passed,
and then I was released.
They gave me my bag
and said, “You are free now.”
When they were releasing me,
one guard asked me to give him a magazine.
I felt joy that even the situation
I found myself in
served for spreading the good news.
A while ago, we were
discussing politics in social science class.
The teacher asked the class
who we would vote for.
I could see what was coming,
so I offered a prayer to Jehovah.
And then she also stopped at my desk.
I simply answered
that I don’t vote.
The teacher looked at me all surprised
but didn’t really know what to say,
so she just carried on.
So I felt very relieved and happy
because I had said what I needed to say.
But instead of leaving it at that, she came back
and asked me why I don’t vote.
So I started to explain that governments
will never bring lasting peace,
no matter how sincerely they try.
And that’s when I told them
about God’s Kingdom.
Instead of being quiet, my classmates
started asking question after question like:
“So when will God’s Kingdom come then?”
and “What is the Kingdom?”
I never expected they would ask
so many questions and be so interested.
So that was a really nice surprise for me as well.
And I was slightly starting to panic,
for I wasn’t sure what to say
and how to explain it all properly.
And all of a sudden,
the idea came to me to show the video.
So feeling a bit more confident,
I told the class that I had a video
that would explain exactly
what God’s Kingdom is.
All the students seemed enthusiastic
and wanted to see it.
So I got up and walked to the computer,
but it wasn’t working.
I was so disappointed, for I really had the feeling
that, apparently, I didn’t know how.
I found it hard to explain, but the video could.
And now there was no way to show them.
But some of my classmates
didn’t give up so easily.
They asked me, “Isn’t there another way
we can still watch the video?”
They had really become interested.
So, then, I came up with the idea to add
it to our school’s group app for the class.
And they liked it.
So I did that.
Almost at once I received a reply from a student,
who wasn’t in my social science class, asking,
“So when will God’s Kingdom come then?”
So here I am thinking, ‘How should I respond?’
When, before I could even reply,
another girl—also not in my
social science class—answers,
“Well, you should have watched the whole video,
“for then you would have seen that you need
to read the Good News brochure.”
So in the end, I didn’t have to say or do anything.
People were responding for me.
And later on, I also heard two girls
talking about God’s Kingdom,
even though I’d never spoken
to them about it nor sent them anything.
That was pretty special too.
I wouldn’t call myself a talkative person.
When in a crowd, I prefer to stay
in the background and not say too much.
That is why I truly believe
that Jehovah gives us courage.
Normally I probably would never have stood up.
But with Jehovah’s help, I did.